Hi, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to be adding
custom JSON types to our models.
What is a custom JSON type?
Well, we've got ourselves this JSON method in our models
and it returns a dictionary.
What we don't know though, is what sort of values
are stored in the dictionary.
For example, are all the keys strings?
Or are all the values numbers?
We don't really have any information about that
so potentially, somebody could try to get this JSON out
and then access some number key,
say for example, like five, or something.
Of course, that doesn't make sense when you know
what this JSON type is and what it contains,
and particularly for a small method like this one
that is quite clear what it's returning,
it may not be necessary to do what we're about to do
but it's nonetheless a good practise
when you're returning more complex lists and dictionaries.
So, we're going to start by creating our custom JSON type,
and this can also be useful, of course,
when you are having other types of data
that you wanna create custom types for.
So, the first thing we have to do is
go over to our import and from typing,
we're now gonna import Dict, List, and Union, okay?
And then we're gonna ask ourselves the question.
First of all, what are the keys and values
of the dictionary?
We can see the keys are always strings
so we can start by defining a dictionary
that has strings as keys.
So we're gonna say ItemJSON,
this is just the name of our variable, by the way,
you can call it whatever you want.
It's going to be a Dict, and then using square brackets,
important, not normal brackets, using square brackets
we're gonna put str in there, and then a comma,
and then we're gonna put something else here.
The first argument to these Dicts,
or the first thing inside these square brackets,
is the key of the dictionary.
So this says all keys in this dictionary are strings.
Next up, we have to say what the values have
and id is an integer, name is a string,
price is a float, and store_id is an integer.
So what we've got ourselves here is a bit of everything.
We cannot say strings and ints, because this would be a lie.
The name is a string, not an integer.
So, not all values are integers.
What we're gonna do is say Union
and then put int, str, and float.
So now what this means
is this ItemJSON is a dictionary
that has strings as keys
and either ints, strings, or floats as values.
Okay, now we can see that this JSON method
is going to return an ItemJSON
instead of just a dict.
And this gives us a bit more information
about exactly what's gonna come back
particularly to PyCharm
and to any other editor that uses these type hints.
If you try to access a key such as the key number five,
it's gonna give you a warning, saying,
hey, all the keys in this dictionary are strings,
but you've tried to access an integer
and that's probably not gonna work for you.
So, it's just gonna be a bit more helpful
if you do something like this.
Okay, now we can go over to the store model
and we're going to do something very similar
but actually it's going to be even more powerful.
Okay, once again, we're going to import Union at the top.
We'll need that and we're gonna define our StoreJSON,
which is once again going to be a dictionary.
The keys are all strings, so the first element
in this square bracket set is going to be str for string
and the second element is going to be
either integers, strings,
or a list.
So, once again, we can do Union of int,
str, or list.
Remember this list is what we imported up here.
We can go a level deeper, though
because what is inside this list?
Well, we've got item.jsons
for each of the items in our database.
Item.json we know
returns this ItemJSON type hint.
So we can actually have the list
put another set of square brackets, and in it, put ItemJSON.
Of course, that does mean we have to import ItemJSON,
so we're gonna do that just up here
from models.item import ItemJSON.
There we have it.
Now, we have complete information
about what this store JSON is going to contain,
a dictionary with strings as keys
and either integers, strings, or a list of ItemJSONs
as the value.
We can of course, then, go ahead and return this.
Okay, there we go.
Now we can go over to our user model for the last change
and once again, we're gonna import Union from up here
and we're going to create our UserJSON
which is gonna be a dict of strings to Union
where that can contain either an integer or a string.
So we're gonna put int and str here
and we're gonna make this return a UserJSON.
So the main purpose of this video,
other than to add a bit of more
concrete returns to our API,
it's also to teach you about custom type hint values.
So you can create these custom ones
and you can use them one within the other
and that's totally fine
and it's gonna add just a bit more specificity to your APIs
and to generally all your Python applications.
So that's it for this video, I'll see you on the next one.